# Project-545
132 MW Sugarcane Bagasse based co-generation Energy USINA CORURIPE

Scale of the project activity Large Scale 

Project participants 
SA USINA CORURIPE AÇUCAR E ALCOOL 
(OWNER) 
 
Host Party BRAZIL 

Applied methodologies and standardized baselines 
CHOOSE METHODOLOGY 
CDMUNFCCC Methodology ACM0006: 
Electricity and heat generation from biomass 
(Ver.16) &UCR Standard for Emission Factor  

Sectoral scopes 01 Energy industries (Renewable/Non- Renewable 
Sources)  

SDG Impacts: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 
17 
Estimated amount of total GHG emission 
reductions 

Ex-ante estimate: 
76,149 CoUs/yr  (76,149 tCO2eq/yr) 
____________
The project titled “132 MW Sugarcane Bagasse based co-generation Energy USINA CORURIPE” is 
a 100% Brazilian company headquartered in the city of Coruripe, Alagoas, with five production units: 
one located in Coruripe (AL), and four in the state of Minas Gerais, in the municipalities of Iturama, 
Campo Florido, Limeira do Oeste, and Carneirinho. 
Altogether, the units have a combined crushing capacity of 16.2 million tons of sugarcane per harvest 
season. 

Coruripe uses sugarcane bagasse as biomass for energy generation. The bagasse, which is rich in 
cellulose, is burned in boilers to produce steam, which is then converted into thermal energy and 
subsequently into renewable electricity through a cogeneration process. 
The energy generated not only supplies the industrial units and administrative offices but also enables 
the surplus to be sold in both the regulated and free markets, contributing to a more sustainable energy 
system by replacing fossil-based energy sources. 

Among all units, energy export is distributed as follows: 
___________
Carneirinho Unit (UTE Carneirinho): equipped with two 12 MW generators, totaling 24 MW of 
installed capacity, with an energy export contract of 13 MW. 
__________
Iturama Unit: divided into two thermal power plants (UTEs): - - 
___________
UTE Usina Iturama: has one 20 MW generator, with an export contract of 12 MW; 
___________
UTE Coruripe Energética Iturama: has two 12 MW generators, totaling 24 MW of installed 
capacity, with an energy export contract of 22 MW. 
_________
Campo Florido Unit: divided into two thermal power plants (UTEs): - - 
__________
UTE Usina Coruripe Campo Florido: equipped with one 30 MW generator, with an energy 
export contract of 15 MW; 
______
UTE Coruripe Energética Campo Florido: equipped with one 30 MW generator, with an 
energy export contract of 30 MW. 
_________
Coruripe Headquarters Unit: divided into two thermal power plants (UTEs): - - 
_________
UTE COR: equipped with one 32 MW generator, with an energy export contract of 16 MW; 
_________
UTE CVW Energética: equipped with one 40 MW generator, with an energy export contract 
of 24 MW.
________________
The project activity has not applied to any other GHG program for generation or issuance of carbon 
offsets or credits for the said crediting period. 
CORURIPE is also certified by Renovabio, which is Brazilian National Biofuels Program, created to 
encourage the production and use of sustainable biofuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel, replacing 
gasoline and diesel, which are more polluting fossil fuels. It certifies companies based on the 
environmental efficiency of production, allowing them to issue CBIOs (Decarbonization Credits), 
which can be sold. Although RenovaBio and the carbon credit certification system have similar 
objectives when it comes to decarbonization, they are different programs and work in different ways, 
with their own regulations and mechanisms.  
CBIOs are financial instruments issued exclusively from the certified production of biofuels, in this 
case, ethanol. On the other hand, the carbon credits proposed in this project are generated by surplus 
renewable energy exported to the electricity grid.  - Law No. 13,576/2017 (RenovaBio Law, https://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_ato2015
2018/2017/lei/l13576.htm): Establishes the National Biofuels Policy, focusing on the production 
and use of biofuels, without mentioning the generation of carbon credits for surplus energy.  - ANP Resolution No. 758/2018 (https://atosoficiais.com.br/anp/resolucao-n-758-2018
regulamenta-a-certificacao-da-producao-ou-importacao-eficiente-de-biocombustiveis-de-que-trata
o-art-18-da-lei-no-13-576-de-26-de-dezembro-de-2017-e-o-credenciamento-de-firmas
inspetoras?origin=instituicao&q=Resolu%C3%A7%C3%A3o%20ANP%20n%C2%BA%20758/20

 18): Regulates the certification of efficient production of biofuels, treating electrical energy as a co
product, but not as a direct source of CBIOs.  - Technical Note nº 62/2018/SBQ/ANP: Details the methodology for calculating CBIOs, 
reaffirming that exported electrical energy is considered only as a co-product.  

In the Renovabio program, the RenovaCalc tool is used, which uses exported energy as one of the 
factors to calculate the plant's Energy-Environmental Efficiency Rating (NEEA), that is an indicator 
of the efficiency of the production process, specifically in the industrial phase. A higher NEEA 
indicates a more efficient process, which generally results in a lower carbon intensity. Impact on 
CBIOs: the amount of CBIOs generated is based on the difference between the carbon intensity of 
the biofuel and that of the equivalent fossil fuel. The lower the carbon intensity of the biofuel, the 
greater the difference compared to fossil fuel, resulting in more CBIOs generated.  

Role of Exported Energy in generating CBIOs:  

Exported electrical energy is considered a beneficial co-product. It "credits" the process, effectively 
reducing the carbon intensity attributed to the biofuel. This is because exported renewable energy 
replaces potentially more carbon-intensive energy on the grid.  
If a plant exports more renewable energy, its NEEA tends to improve. A better NEEA generally 
results in a lower carbon intensity for the ethanol produced. With lower carbon intensity, the gap 
with fossil fuel increases. Consequently, more CBIOs are generated per unit of biofuel produced.  

Whereas the impact of exported energy on the amount of CBIOs is generally marginal compared to 
other factors such as agricultural and industrial efficiency, exported energy is just one of the many 
factors considered in the NEEA calculation. However, to adopt a conservative position and avoid 
double counting, percentage of Carbon Credits will be deducted here in this program, in the same 
proportion in which the exported energy boosted the generation of CBIOs
